README.md, before:

# Serverless Scheduler

AWS based serverless solution for scheduling and running tasks.
The main use at the moment is monitoring websites for changes in HTML, however it's easy to extend it with plugins that can be implemented to do whatever you like.

If your workflow fits the generic "every `n` minutes do `something`" and you're willing to implement a plugin for `something` then it can be done with this project.

The API and scheduler core are pretty stable as of now, but the frontend still requires a major refactor (to properly get supported job types that were added as a plugin).

For a similar thing but hardcoded to a single JobType and deployable in Kubernetes cluster look at `k8s` branch of this repo.

In reality if you don't need it to scale to the moon your best bet is to use a widely recognized project such as [changedetection.io](https://github.com/dgtlmoon/changedetection.io).
Don't use this in production :D

# High level overview

![High Level Overview](docs/diagrams/created/high_level_overview.png?raw=true "High Level Overview")

There are few packages worth mentioning that together make the application:

1. `common` package which defines the schemas for all the communication between services
2. `items` microservice, which exposes REST API and accepts objects that match `ScheduledJob` definitions from `common`.
   The data is then kept in DynamoDB
3. `front`end for the above API
4. `schedulers` which monitor the DynamoDB changes and manages schedulers that periodically issue events to an SNS topic.
5. [plugins/serverless-scheduler-html-checker](http://github.com/dezeroku/serverless-scheduler-html-checker) which is an example implementation of an SNS topic listener (it only collects events that match `job_type=='html_monitor_job'`).
   Based on this one you can write your own checkers that do whatever you want

## Potential dangers

- EventBridge Schedulers getting out of sync with `Items` DB - is it possible?

# How does the frontend look like?

Couple screenshots from the provided web UI.

![Home Page (empty)](docs/static/front/home.png?raw=true "Home Page (empty)")
![Task Creation](docs/static/front/create.png?raw=true "Task Creation")
![Home Page](docs/static/front/added.png?raw=true "Home Page")
![Modify Modal](docs/static/front/modify.png?raw=true "Modify Modal")

# How to deploy it?

## TL;DR

Prepare your own `<DEPLOY_ENV>-secret-values.tfvars` files for directories in `terraform/deployments` and `plugins/<plugin name>/terraform/`, and run

```
./utils/complete_build.sh
./utils/complete_deploy.sh
```

## Deploying specific parts of the system

Each group has its own terraform "blocks", that define parts of the infra.
The are multiple blocks per group, as terraform handles both the core infra (e.g. `items-infra`), but also code deployments (e.g. `items-front-upload`).

Situation is a bit complicated at the moment, but for `items`:

1. There is terraform module for deploying core infra (needs to be run on init)
2. There is terraform module for uploading front files (needs to be run when front changes)
3. There is a terraform module for deploying lambdas and attaching them to API Gateway (needs to be run when backend changes)

First build the packages by issuing

```
./utils/build.sh items
```

then prepare the `<ENV>-secret-values.tfvars` in `terraform/deployments/core` (you can base on `dev-secret-values.tfvars.example` and finally

```
DEPLOY_ENV=<ENV> ./utils/deploy.sh items-infra
DEPLOY_ENV=<ENV> ./utils/deploy.sh items-front-upload
DEPLOY_ENV=<ENV> ./utils/deploy.sh items-lambdas-upload
```

## Plugins

While the core functionality (scheduler + UI) is defined in this repo, handlers for different job types should be kept in `plugins/<specific plugin>` directory, e.g. for `HTMLMonitorJob` consumer there is `plugins/serverless-scheduler-html-checker` directory (git submodule).

These plugins are expected to follow common project structure, so they work seamlessly with existing build system.
Namely:

1. Plugin defines `bin/package_lambda_entrypoint` script, that outputs the zip generated for a project to `.packaging/result/lambda.zip` file. It's up to the developer to define if this script will rely on `serverless-scheduler`'s build system that's used for core packages or define their own logic.
2. Plugin defines `terraform` directory, that contains all the logic needs to deploy the project.
   The following variables should be accepted:

- `aws_region` - in what region to deploy
- `service` - to be used in tags as 'Service'
- `stage` - to be used in tags as 'Stage'
- `prefix` - what value to prefix the deployed objects' names with
- `lambda_zip_path` - path to zip file that should be used by the consumer Lambda (build system will automatically insert the zip built in step 1.)
- `distribution_sns_topic_arn` - ARN of the SNS topic that deployment should monitor for incoming events with matching job_type
- `common_layer_arn` - (optional support) ARN of the Lambda layer with `common` package. This is really only usable with Python based plugins
- `plugins_layer_arn` - (optional support) ARN of the Lambda layer with `plugins-interface` package. This is really only usable with Python based plugins

3. Plugin's directory contains a `<plugin-name>-api` python package that exports package following `serverless-scheduler-<>-api` naming scheme and contains `plugin_export` subpackage, which exports:

- `ENUM_MAPPING` - dict from `str` to `str`, keys are ENUM identifiers, while values are string identifiers, e.g. `HTMLMonitorJob`: `html_monitor_job`
- `CLASS_MAPPING` - dict from `str` to `class`, keys are string identifiers (values from `ENUM_MAPPING`), while values are classes that map to a jobType

The reference implementation can be seen in previously mentioned `plugins/serverless-scheduler-html-checker`.
`serverless-scheduler-plugin-example` can be treated as an example of just the API part, even though there's no real logic defined in it.

It's up to the user to define if the consumer should use SQS as a "buffer" before consuming the event by Lambda or not.
In practice the consumer doesn't even have to be a Lambda function, although it's recommended for keeping the whole model serverless.

Installed plugins have access to the `common` layer (via the ARN provided), but they don't have access to `plugins` layer.
The reasoning here is that a scope of a plugin should be completely covered by the single plugin.

Commit message:

readme: update about config dir

README.md, after:

# Serverless Scheduler

AWS based serverless solution for scheduling and running tasks.
The main use at the moment is monitoring websites for changes in HTML, however it's easy to extend it with plugins that can be implemented to do whatever you like.

If your workflow fits the generic "every `n` minutes do `something`" and you're willing to implement a plugin for `something` then it can be done with this project.

The API and scheduler core are pretty stable as of now, but the frontend still requires a major refactor (to properly get supported job types that were added as a plugin).

For a similar thing but hardcoded to a single JobType and deployable in Kubernetes cluster look at `k8s` branch of this repo.

In reality if you don't need it to scale to the moon your best bet is to use a widely recognized project such as [changedetection.io](https://github.com/dgtlmoon/changedetection.io).
Don't use this in production :D

# High level overview

![High Level Overview](docs/diagrams/created/high_level_overview.png?raw=true "High Level Overview")

There are few packages worth mentioning that together make the application:

1. `common` package which defines the schemas for all the communication between services
2. `items` microservice, which exposes REST API and accepts objects that match `ScheduledJob` definitions from `common`.
   The data is then kept in DynamoDB
3. `front`end for the above API
4. `schedulers` which monitor the DynamoDB changes and manages schedulers that periodically issue events to an SNS topic.
5. [plugins/serverless-scheduler-html-checker](http://github.com/dezeroku/serverless-scheduler-html-checker) which is an example implementation of an SNS topic listener (it only collects events that match `job_type=='html_monitor_job'`).
   Based on this one you can write your own checkers that do whatever you want

## Potential dangers

- EventBridge Schedulers getting out of sync with `Items` DB - is it possible?

# How does the frontend look like?

Couple screenshots from the provided web UI.

![Home Page (empty)](docs/static/front/home.png?raw=true "Home Page (empty)")
![Task Creation](docs/static/front/create.png?raw=true "Task Creation")
![Home Page](docs/static/front/added.png?raw=true "Home Page")
![Modify Modal](docs/static/front/modify.png?raw=true "Modify Modal")

# How to deploy it?

## TL;DR

Prepare your own `*-secret-values.tfvars` files based on `.example` files in `config/<DEPLOY_ENV>/`, and run

```
./utils/complete_build.sh
./utils/complete_deploy.sh
```

## Deploying specific parts of the system

Each group has its own terraform "blocks", that define parts of the infra.
The are multiple blocks per group, as terraform handles both the core infra (e.g. `items-infra`), but also code deployments (e.g. `items-front-upload`).

Situation is a bit complicated at the moment, but for `items`:

1. There is terraform module for deploying core infra (needs to be run on init)
2. There is terraform module for uploading front files (needs to be run when front changes)
3. There is a terraform module for deploying lambdas and attaching them to API Gateway (needs to be run when backend changes)

First build the packages by issuing

```
./utils/build.sh items
```

then prepare the `config/<DEPLOY_ENV>/items-infra-secret-values.tfvars` (you can base on `config/<DEPLOY_ENV>/items-infra-secret-values.tfvars.example` and finally

```
DEPLOY_ENV=<ENV> ./utils/deploy.sh items-infra
DEPLOY_ENV=<ENV> ./utils/deploy.sh items-front-upload
DEPLOY_ENV=<ENV> ./utils/deploy.sh items-lambdas-upload
```

## Plugins

While the core functionality (scheduler + UI) is defined in this repo, handlers for different job types should be kept in `plugins/<specific plugin>` directory, e.g. for `HTMLMonitorJob` consumer there is `plugins/serverless-scheduler-html-checker` directory (git submodule).

These plugins are expected to follow common project structure, so they work seamlessly with existing build system.
Namely:

1. Plugin defines `bin/package_lambda_entrypoint` script, that outputs the zip generated for a project to `.packaging/result/lambda.zip` file. It's up to the developer to define if this script will rely on `serverless-scheduler`'s build system that's used for core packages or define their own logic.
2. Plugin defines `terraform` directory, that contains all the logic needs to deploy the project.
   The following variables should be accepted:

- `aws_region` - in what region to deploy
- `service` - to be used in tags as 'Service'
- `stage` - to be used in tags as 'Stage'
- `prefix` - what value to prefix the deployed objects' names with
- `lambda_zip_path` - path to zip file that should be used by the consumer Lambda (build system will automatically insert the zip built in step 1.)
- `distribution_sns_topic_arn` - ARN of the SNS topic that deployment should monitor for incoming events with matching job_type
- `common_layer_arn` - (optional support) ARN of the Lambda layer with `common` package. This is really only usable with Python based plugins
- `plugins_layer_arn` - (optional support) ARN of the Lambda layer with `plugins-interface` package. This is really only usable with Python based plugins

3. Plugin's directory contains a `<plugin-name>-api` python package that exports package following `serverless-scheduler-<>-api` naming scheme and contains `plugin_export` subpackage, which exports:

- `ENUM_MAPPING` - dict from `str` to `str`, keys are ENUM identifiers, while values are string identifiers, e.g. `HTMLMonitorJob`: `html_monitor_job`
- `CLASS_MAPPING` - dict from `str` to `class`, keys are string identifiers (values from `ENUM_MAPPING`), while values are classes that map to a jobType

The reference implementation can be seen in previously mentioned `plugins/serverless-scheduler-html-checker`.
`serverless-scheduler-plugin-example` can be treated as an example of just the API part, even though there's no real logic defined in it.

It's up to the user to define if the consumer should use SQS as a "buffer" before consuming the event by Lambda or not.
In practice the consumer doesn't even have to be a Lambda function, although it's recommended for keeping the whole model serverless.

Installed plugins have access to the `common` layer (via the ARN provided), but they don't have access to `plugins` layer.
The reasoning here is that a scope of a plugin should be completely covered by the single plugin.
